Learn How Salesforce Values Drive a Platform for Change
Learning Objectives
After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

Explain how Salesforce CRM products provide top-notch customer experiences.
Find more information about Salesforce products.
Name and describe the five core Salesforce values.
Explain the value of business as a platform for change.
The Customer Experience
Salesforce brings companies and customers together. We provide customer relationship management (CRM) tools to engage with customers during every interaction they have with your company, whether you’re a small business or a large one. Customer expectations have increased dramatically in recent years, and Salesforce products allow you to create the best possible experience for your customers.

Customers want to take a unified journey with your company. And you can give them what they need, exactly when they need it with Salesforce products. This means seeing the right ads at the right time, connecting with knowledgeable salespeople, and receiving personalized support and service throughout their journey. With Salesforce, you can provide all of these things at scale with our solutions for marketing, sales, service, and commerce.

Salesforce also enables you to train your workforce, quickly build apps that make your employees more efficient, and use artificial intelligence and analytics to give you an all-inclusive understanding of your customers. And we recognize that no two businesses have the same needs. You can tailor Salesforce for your business and industry, with the help of a rich ecosystem of documentation, experts, and services.

Take a deeper dive into the Salesforce product offerings by looking at our CRM solutions.

Salesforce Values
At Salesforce, we put our values into everything we do. Salesforce has five core values.

Trust: Trust is our number one value. Nothing is more important than the trust of our customers—and all stakeholders. We deliver trusted infrastructure and communicate openly.
Customer Success: We know that we succeed when our customers succeed, so since day one, we’ve built a company around delivering customer success.
Innovation: We empower Trailblazers with technology to succeed in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and we incorporate the latest innovations into our products three times a year so that our customers can stay ahead in their industries.
Equality: We believe that equality and diversity make us a better company and community. We respect and value employees from every background.
Sustainability: We lead boldly to address the climate emergency, bringing the full power of Salesforce to accelerate the world's journey to net zero.
We believe that values create value. Values connect and inspire us, and they are the foundation of our culture at Salesforce. Being a Trailblazer begins with wanting to make a difference in the world, and the belief that we can enable our customers and partners to do just that.

Business As a Platform for Change
We’re committed to making a positive impact in all of the communities that we work and live in. Every business can be a platform for change, and Salesforce embraces our responsibility to do well and do good.

We show our commitment to business as a platform for change with the 1-1-1 model. Salesforce commits 1 percent of our employees’ time, 1 percent of our equity, and 1 percent of our product to nonprofits. Since Salesforce’s founding in 1999, we've given back millions of volunteer hours and millions of dollars in grants, and tens of thousands of nonprofits and education institutions have received our products.

And the 1-1-1 model doesn’t end with Salesforce: We’ve inspired thousands of companies across more than 100 countries to pledge 1 percent and join us on this journey.

Learn more about our values and how they inform our culture by earning the Salesforce Culture and Values badge.

Resources
Trailhead: Salesforce Culture and Values






Quiz
+100 Points Earned
Completed 5/7/2026

1
How have customer expectations shifted in the past few years?

Customers expect less interaction with businesses.

Expectations have stayed about the same.

Customers rarely have customer service issues these days.

Customers expect to connect with businesses more than before.

2
True or false: Trust is our number one value.

A. True

B. False